README.md, before:

# srctl - Schema Registry Control CLI

A powerful CLI tool for Confluent Schema Registry that provides advanced capabilities beyond the standard SR CLI, including multi-threaded operations, referential integrity checks, and cross-registry operations.

## Features

### Schema Operations
- **list** - List subjects with filtering, sorting, pagination
- **versions** - List all versions of a subject
- **get** - Fetch schemas with rich output (JSON, YAML, table)
- **register** - Register schemas with dry-run, context support
- **delete** - Advanced delete with referential integrity checks
- **diff** - Compare schemas between versions, subjects, or registries
- **evolve** - Analyze schema evolution history with breaking change detection

### Bulk & Backup Operations
- **export** - Export to tar.gz or zip with dependencies (multi-threaded)
- **import** - Import from directory/archive with automatic dependency ordering
- **backup** - Full registry backup including configs, modes, and tags (multi-threaded)
- **restore** - Restore from backup with dependency ordering and optional schema ID preservation

### Cross-Registry Operations
- **compare** - Compare schemas across registries with multi-threading
- **clone** - Clone schemas between registries (preserves schema IDs by default)

### Data Contracts
- **contract** - Manage data contract rules (get, set, validate)

### Configuration & Analysis
- **config** - Manage compatibility settings at all levels
- **mode** - Manage registry mode (READWRITE, READONLY, IMPORT)
- **stats** - Comprehensive statistics with multi-threading
- **health** - Health check for connectivity
- **contexts** - List all contexts in the registry
- **dangling** - Find schemas with broken/dangling references

## Installation

### From Releases (Recommended)

Download the latest binary for your platform from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases):

```bash
# macOS (Apple Silicon)
curl -LO https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases/latest/download/srctl-darwin-arm64
chmod +x srctl-darwin-arm64
sudo mv srctl-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/srctl

# macOS (Intel)
curl -LO https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases/latest/download/srctl-darwin-amd64
chmod +x srctl-darwin-amd64
sudo mv srctl-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/srctl

# Linux (amd64)
curl -LO https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases/latest/download/srctl-linux-amd64
chmod +x srctl-linux-amd64
sudo mv srctl-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/srctl
```

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/srctl/srctl.git
cd srctl
make build
# or: go build -o srctl .
```

### Verify Installation

```bash
srctl --help
srctl health --url https://your-sr-url --username API_KEY --password API_SECRET
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Set up config (or use --url, --username, --password flags)
cp srctl.example.yaml ~/.srctl/srctl.yaml
# Edit with your credentials

# 2. Check connectivity
srctl health

# 3. List subjects
srctl list

# 4. Register a schema (see examples/ folder for sample schemas)
srctl register my-topic-value --file schema.avsc

# 5. View schema details
srctl get my-topic-value

# 6. Compare versions
srctl diff my-topic-value@1 my-topic-value@2
```

## Configuration

### Configuration File

Copy `srctl.example.yaml` to `~/.srctl/srctl.yaml` or `./srctl.yaml` and fill in your credentials:

```yaml
registries:
  # Confluent Cloud
  - name: confluent-cloud
    url: https://psrc-xxxxx.us-east-2.aws.confluent.cloud
    username: YOUR_API_KEY
    password: YOUR_API_SECRET
    default: true

  # Development environment
  - name: dev
    url: https://dev-sr.example.com
    username: DEV_API_KEY
    password: DEV_API_SECRET
    context: .dev

  # Production environment
  - name: prod
    url: https://prod-sr.example.com
    username: PROD_API_KEY
    password: PROD_API_SECRET
    context: .production

# Default output format
default_output: table
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
export SCHEMA_REGISTRY_URL=https://your-sr.cloud.confluent.io
export SCHEMA_REGISTRY_BASIC_AUTH_USER_INFO=API_KEY:API_SECRET
```

## Performance Tips

### Using Workers for Large Registries

For registries with many subjects (1000+), increase the `--workers` flag for faster operations:

```bash
# Stats with 100 parallel workers (recommended for large registries)
srctl stats --workers 100

# Export with parallel fetching
srctl export --output ./schemas --workers 50

# Backup with parallel processing
srctl backup --output ./backup --workers 50

# Clone with parallel processing
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --workers 50

# Bulk delete with parallel processing
srctl delete --subjects user-events,order-events --workers 20

# Delete all with parallel processing (DANGEROUS!)
srctl delete --force --all --workers 100
```

**Recommended worker counts:**
| Registry Size | Workers |
|---------------|---------|
| < 100 subjects | 10 (default) |
| 100-500 subjects | 20-30 |
| 500-2000 subjects | 50 |
| 2000-10000 subjects | 100 |
| > 10000 subjects | 100-200 |

⚠️ **Note:** Higher worker counts will execute faster but may hit rate limits on managed services like Confluent Cloud. Adjust based on your environment.

## Command Reference

### Delete Operations

The delete command supports multiple modes with **referential integrity checks**:

```bash
# Soft delete a specific version
srctl delete user-events 3

# Soft delete entire subject
srctl delete user-events

# Permanent delete (hard delete)
srctl delete user-events --permanent

# Force delete specific version (soft + hard)
srctl delete user-events 3 --force

# Force delete entire subject
srctl delete user-events --force

# Delete multiple subjects with multi-threading
srctl delete --subjects user-events,order-events --workers 10

# Force delete entire context (DANGEROUS!)
srctl delete --context .mycontext --force --workers 20

# Empty entire registry (VERY DANGEROUS!)
srctl delete --force --all --workers 50

# Keep only latest 3 versions (soft delete)
srctl delete user-events --keep-latest 3

# Keep only latest 3 versions (permanent delete)
srctl delete user-events --keep-latest 3 --force

# Purge all soft-deleted schemas
srctl delete --purge-soft-deleted --workers 20
```

#### Referential Integrity

By default, delete operations check if schemas are referenced by other schemas:

```bash
# This will fail if user-events is referenced by other schemas
srctl delete user-events

# Skip referential integrity check (not recommended)
srctl delete user-events --skip-ref-check
```

### Clone Operations

Clone schemas between registries with **schema ID preservation** (default):

```bash
# Clone all schemas (preserves schema IDs by default)
srctl clone --source dev --target prod

# Clone with high parallelism for large registries
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --workers 50

# Clone specific subjects
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --subjects user-events,order-events

# Clone WITHOUT preserving schema IDs (new IDs will be assigned)
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --no-preserve-ids

# Clone with configs and tags
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --configs --tags

# Dry run to preview changes
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --dry-run
```

**Note:** Schema ID preservation requires the target registry to be set to IMPORT mode. The clone command handles this automatically.

### Export & Import

Export schemas to a directory or archive for transfer or version control:

```bash
# Export all schemas to directory
srctl export --output ./schemas

# Export to tar.gz archive
srctl export --output schemas.tar.gz --archive tar

# Export to zip archive  
srctl export --output schemas.zip --archive zip

# Export only latest versions
srctl export --versions latest --output ./schemas

# Export with referenced schemas
srctl export --with-refs --output ./schemas

# Export with parallelism
srctl export --output ./schemas --workers 50
```

Import schemas from an export:

```bash
# Import from directory
srctl import ./schemas

# Import from archive
srctl import schemas.tar.gz

# Dry run (validate without importing)
srctl import ./schemas --dry-run

# Skip subjects that already exist
srctl import ./schemas --skip-existing

# Import into specific context
srctl import ./schemas --target-context .production
```

**Important:** Import automatically sorts schemas by dependencies (topological sort) so that referenced schemas are registered before schemas that reference them.

### Backup & Restore

```bash
# Full backup with tags
srctl backup --output ./backup --workers 50

# Backup with schema ID mapping (for exact restoration)
srctl backup --output ./backup --by-id --workers 50

# Backup specific subjects
srctl backup --output ./backup --subjects user-events,order-events

# Restore from backup
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115

# Restore with original schema IDs (requires backup with --by-id)
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --preserve-ids

# Restore with tags
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --tags

# Dry run restore
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --dry-run

# Restore specific subjects only
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --subjects user-events
```

**Important Notes:**
- Restore automatically sorts schemas by dependencies to ensure correct registration order
- `--preserve-ids` requires the backup to be created with `--by-id` and sets the registry to IMPORT mode
- Schema **version numbers may differ** after restore - Schema Registry assigns versions sequentially, so if you backup v1, v3, v5 (with v2, v4 deleted), restore creates v1, v2, v3

### Compare Operations

```bash
# Compare registries with multi-threading
srctl compare --source dev --target prod --workers 50

# Compare by schema ID
srctl compare --source dev --target prod --by-id

# Show only differences
srctl compare --source dev --target prod --diff-only
```

### Statistics

```bash
# Basic stats
srctl stats

# Fast stats with high parallelism
srctl stats --workers 100

# JSON output
srctl stats -o json
```

### Data Contracts

```bash
# Get data contract rules
srctl contract get user-events

# Set rules from file
srctl contract set user-events --rules rules.json

# Validate schema against rules
srctl contract validate user-events --schema schema.avsc

# Delete data contract rules
srctl contract delete user-events
```

### Schema Versions & Evolution

```bash
# List all versions of a subject
srctl versions user-events

# Include deleted versions
srctl versions user-events --deleted

# Analyze schema evolution history
srctl evolve user-events

# Show detailed field changes between versions
srctl evolve user-events --detailed
```

### Mode Management

Manage the registry mode at global or subject level:

```bash
# View global mode
srctl mode

# View mode for a subject
srctl mode user-events

# Set global mode to READONLY
srctl mode --set READONLY

# Set subject to IMPORT mode (for restoring with specific IDs)
srctl mode user-events --set IMPORT

# View mode at all levels
srctl mode --all
```

**Modes:**
- `READWRITE` - Normal operation (default)
- `READONLY` - Only allow reads
- `IMPORT` - Allow importing schemas with specific IDs

### Dangling References

Find schemas that reference soft-deleted schemas:

```bash
# Find all dangling references
srctl dangling

# Use more workers for large registries
srctl dangling --workers 50

# Output as JSON
srctl dangling --json
```

This helps identify referential integrity issues before permanent deletion.

### Contexts

```bash
# List all contexts in the registry
srctl contexts

# Output as JSON
srctl contexts -o json
```

## Output Formats

All commands support multiple output formats:

```bash
srctl list -o table    # Default, human-readable
srctl list -o json     # JSON format
srctl list -o yaml     # YAML format
srctl list -o plain    # Plain text (one item per line)
```

## Context Support

Schema Registry supports contexts for logical separation:

```bash
srctl list --context .production
srctl get user-events --context .staging
srctl register user-events --file schema.avsc --context .mycontext
```

## Safety Features

### Delete Safety Levels

1. **Referential Integrity Check** (default) - Prevents deleting schemas that are referenced by others
2. **Soft Delete** (default) - Marks as deleted, can be restored
3. **Permanent Delete** (`--permanent`) - Removes permanently
4. **Force Delete** (`--force`) - Bypasses soft delete, performs full deletion
5. **Confirmation Prompts** - Required for destructive operations
6. **Skip Confirmations** (`--yes`) - For scripted usage

### Clone Safety

- Schema IDs are preserved by default to maintain referential integrity
- Use `--no-preserve-ids` only when you explicitly want new IDs assigned

## Global Flags

```
-u, --url string        Schema Registry URL (overrides config)
    --username string   Basic auth username
    --password string   Basic auth password
-r, --registry string   Registry name from config
-c, --context string    Schema Registry context (e.g., '.mycontext')
-o, --output string     Output format: table, json, yaml, plain (default "table")
```

## Exit Codes

- `0` - Success
- `1` - General error
- `2` - Configuration error
- `3` - Connection error

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Add validate and search commands
validate: Offline schema validation with actionable feedback
- Syntax validation for Avro, Protobuf, JSON Schema (no registry needed)
- Local compatibility check between two files (BACKWARD/FORWARD/FULL)
- Directory validation for batch checking
- Actionable fix suggestions for every error

search: Schema discovery across the registry
- Field name search with glob patterns
- Field type filtering
- Full-text search (case-insensitive)
- Tag-based search via Schema Registry tag API
- Multi-threaded parallel fetching with --workers flag

README.md, after:

# srctl - Schema Registry Control CLI

A powerful CLI tool for Confluent Schema Registry that provides advanced capabilities beyond the standard SR CLI, including multi-threaded operations, referential integrity checks, and cross-registry operations.

## Features

### Schema Operations
- **list** - List subjects with filtering, sorting, pagination
- **versions** - List all versions of a subject
- **get** - Fetch schemas with rich output (JSON, YAML, table)
- **register** - Register schemas with dry-run, context support
- **delete** - Advanced delete with referential integrity checks
- **diff** - Compare schemas between versions, subjects, or registries
- **evolve** - Analyze schema evolution history with breaking change detection
- **validate** - Validate schema syntax and compatibility offline (no registry needed)
- **search** - Search schemas by field name, type, tag, or content across the registry

### Schema Splitting
- **split analyze** - Analyze a schema and show extractable types, sizes, and dependency tree
- **split extract** - Split a schema into referenced sub-schemas and write to files
- **split register** - Split a schema and register all parts to Schema Registry in dependency order

### Bulk & Backup Operations
- **export** - Export to tar.gz or zip with dependencies (multi-threaded)
- **import** - Import from directory/archive with automatic dependency ordering
- **backup** - Full registry backup including configs, modes, and tags (multi-threaded)
- **restore** - Restore from backup with dependency ordering and optional schema ID preservation

### Cross-Registry Operations
- **compare** - Compare schemas across registries with multi-threading
- **clone** - Clone schemas between registries (preserves schema IDs by default)

### Data Contracts
- **contract** - Manage data contract rules (get, set, validate)

### Configuration & Analysis
- **config** - Manage compatibility settings at all levels
- **mode** - Manage registry mode (READWRITE, READONLY, IMPORT)
- **stats** - Comprehensive statistics with multi-threading
- **health** - Health check for connectivity
- **contexts** - List all contexts in the registry
- **dangling** - Find schemas with broken/dangling references

## Installation

### From Releases (Recommended)

Download the latest binary for your platform from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases):

```bash
# macOS (Apple Silicon)
curl -LO https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases/latest/download/srctl-darwin-arm64
chmod +x srctl-darwin-arm64
sudo mv srctl-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/srctl

# macOS (Intel)
curl -LO https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases/latest/download/srctl-darwin-amd64
chmod +x srctl-darwin-amd64
sudo mv srctl-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/srctl

# Linux (amd64)
curl -LO https://github.com/srctl/srctl/releases/latest/download/srctl-linux-amd64
chmod +x srctl-linux-amd64
sudo mv srctl-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/srctl
```

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/srctl/srctl.git
cd srctl
make build
# or: go build -o srctl .
```

### Verify Installation

```bash
srctl --help
srctl health --url https://your-sr-url --username API_KEY --password API_SECRET
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Set up config (or use --url, --username, --password flags)
cp srctl.example.yaml ~/.srctl/srctl.yaml
# Edit with your credentials

# 2. Check connectivity
srctl health

# 3. List subjects
srctl list

# 4. Register a schema (see examples/ folder for sample schemas)
srctl register my-topic-value --file schema.avsc

# 5. View schema details
srctl get my-topic-value

# 6. Compare versions
srctl diff my-topic-value@1 my-topic-value@2
```

## Configuration

### Configuration File

Copy `srctl.example.yaml` to `~/.srctl/srctl.yaml` or `./srctl.yaml` and fill in your credentials:

```yaml
registries:
  # Confluent Cloud
  - name: confluent-cloud
    url: https://psrc-xxxxx.us-east-2.aws.confluent.cloud
    username: YOUR_API_KEY
    password: YOUR_API_SECRET
    default: true

  # Development environment
  - name: dev
    url: https://dev-sr.example.com
    username: DEV_API_KEY
    password: DEV_API_SECRET
    context: .dev

  # Production environment
  - name: prod
    url: https://prod-sr.example.com
    username: PROD_API_KEY
    password: PROD_API_SECRET
    context: .production

# Default output format
default_output: table
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
export SCHEMA_REGISTRY_URL=https://your-sr.cloud.confluent.io
export SCHEMA_REGISTRY_BASIC_AUTH_USER_INFO=API_KEY:API_SECRET
```

## Performance Tips

### Using Workers for Large Registries

For registries with many subjects (1000+), increase the `--workers` flag for faster operations:

```bash
# Stats with 100 parallel workers (recommended for large registries)
srctl stats --workers 100

# Export with parallel fetching
srctl export --output ./schemas --workers 50

# Backup with parallel processing
srctl backup --output ./backup --workers 50

# Clone with parallel processing
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --workers 50

# Bulk delete with parallel processing
srctl delete --subjects user-events,order-events --workers 20

# Delete all with parallel processing (DANGEROUS!)
srctl delete --force --all --workers 100
```

**Recommended worker counts:**
| Registry Size | Workers |
|---------------|---------|
| < 100 subjects | 10 (default) |
| 100-500 subjects | 20-30 |
| 500-2000 subjects | 50 |
| 2000-10000 subjects | 100 |
| > 10000 subjects | 100-200 |

⚠️ **Note:** Higher worker counts will execute faster but may hit rate limits on managed services like Confluent Cloud. Adjust based on your environment.

## Command Reference

### Delete Operations

The delete command supports multiple modes with **referential integrity checks**:

```bash
# Soft delete a specific version
srctl delete user-events 3

# Soft delete entire subject
srctl delete user-events

# Permanent delete (hard delete)
srctl delete user-events --permanent

# Force delete specific version (soft + hard)
srctl delete user-events 3 --force

# Force delete entire subject
srctl delete user-events --force

# Delete multiple subjects with multi-threading
srctl delete --subjects user-events,order-events --workers 10

# Force delete entire context (DANGEROUS!)
srctl delete --context .mycontext --force --workers 20

# Empty entire registry (VERY DANGEROUS!)
srctl delete --force --all --workers 50

# Keep only latest 3 versions (soft delete)
srctl delete user-events --keep-latest 3

# Keep only latest 3 versions (permanent delete)
srctl delete user-events --keep-latest 3 --force

# Purge all soft-deleted schemas
srctl delete --purge-soft-deleted --workers 20
```

#### Referential Integrity

By default, delete operations check if schemas are referenced by other schemas:

```bash
# This will fail if user-events is referenced by other schemas
srctl delete user-events

# Skip referential integrity check (not recommended)
srctl delete user-events --skip-ref-check
```

### Clone Operations

Clone schemas between registries with **schema ID preservation** (default):

```bash
# Clone all schemas (preserves schema IDs by default)
srctl clone --source dev --target prod

# Clone with high parallelism for large registries
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --workers 50

# Clone specific subjects
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --subjects user-events,order-events

# Clone WITHOUT preserving schema IDs (new IDs will be assigned)
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --no-preserve-ids

# Clone with configs and tags
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --configs --tags

# Dry run to preview changes
srctl clone --source dev --target prod --dry-run
```

**Note:** Schema ID preservation requires the target registry to be set to IMPORT mode. The clone command handles this automatically.

### Export & Import

Export schemas to a directory or archive for transfer or version control:

```bash
# Export all schemas to directory
srctl export --output ./schemas

# Export to tar.gz archive
srctl export --output schemas.tar.gz --archive tar

# Export to zip archive  
srctl export --output schemas.zip --archive zip

# Export only latest versions
srctl export --versions latest --output ./schemas

# Export with referenced schemas
srctl export --with-refs --output ./schemas

# Export with parallelism
srctl export --output ./schemas --workers 50
```

Import schemas from an export:

```bash
# Import from directory
srctl import ./schemas

# Import from archive
srctl import schemas.tar.gz

# Dry run (validate without importing)
srctl import ./schemas --dry-run

# Skip subjects that already exist
srctl import ./schemas --skip-existing

# Import into specific context
srctl import ./schemas --target-context .production
```

**Important:** Import automatically sorts schemas by dependencies (topological sort) so that referenced schemas are registered before schemas that reference them.

### Backup & Restore

```bash
# Full backup with tags
srctl backup --output ./backup --workers 50

# Backup with schema ID mapping (for exact restoration)
srctl backup --output ./backup --by-id --workers 50

# Backup specific subjects
srctl backup --output ./backup --subjects user-events,order-events

# Restore from backup
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115

# Restore with original schema IDs (requires backup with --by-id)
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --preserve-ids

# Restore with tags
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --tags

# Dry run restore
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --dry-run

# Restore specific subjects only
srctl restore ./backup/sr-backup-20240115 --subjects user-events
```

**Important Notes:**
- Restore automatically sorts schemas by dependencies to ensure correct registration order
- `--preserve-ids` requires the backup to be created with `--by-id` and sets the registry to IMPORT mode
- Schema **version numbers may differ** after restore - Schema Registry assigns versions sequentially, so if you backup v1, v3, v5 (with v2, v4 deleted), restore creates v1, v2, v3

### Compare Operations

```bash
# Compare registries with multi-threading
srctl compare --source dev --target prod --workers 50

# Compare by schema ID
srctl compare --source dev --target prod --by-id

# Show only differences
srctl compare --source dev --target prod --diff-only
```

### Statistics

```bash
# Basic stats
srctl stats

# Fast stats with high parallelism
srctl stats --workers 100

# JSON output
srctl stats -o json
```

### Data Contracts

```bash
# Get data contract rules
srctl contract get user-events

# Set rules from file
srctl contract set user-events --rules rules.json

# Validate schema against rules
srctl contract validate user-events --schema schema.avsc

# Delete data contract rules
srctl contract delete user-events
```

### Schema Versions & Evolution

```bash
# List all versions of a subject
srctl versions user-events

# Include deleted versions
srctl versions user-events --deleted

# Analyze schema evolution history
srctl evolve user-events

# Show detailed field changes between versions
srctl evolve user-events --detailed
```

### Mode Management

Manage the registry mode at global or subject level:

```bash
# View global mode
srctl mode

# View mode for a subject
srctl mode user-events

# Set global mode to READONLY
srctl mode --set READONLY

# Set subject to IMPORT mode (for restoring with specific IDs)
srctl mode user-events --set IMPORT

# View mode at all levels
srctl mode --all
```

**Modes:**
- `READWRITE` - Normal operation (default)
- `READONLY` - Only allow reads
- `IMPORT` - Allow importing schemas with specific IDs

### Dangling References

Find schemas that reference soft-deleted schemas:

```bash
# Find all dangling references
srctl dangling

# Use more workers for large registries
srctl dangling --workers 50

# Output as JSON
srctl dangling --json
```

This helps identify referential integrity issues before permanent deletion.

### Contexts

```bash
# List all contexts in the registry
srctl contexts

# Output as JSON
srctl contexts -o json
```

## Output Formats

All commands support multiple output formats:

```bash
srctl list -o table    # Default, human-readable
srctl list -o json     # JSON format
srctl list -o yaml     # YAML format
srctl list -o plain    # Plain text (one item per line)
```

## Context Support

Schema Registry supports contexts for logical separation:

```bash
srctl list --context .production
srctl get user-events --context .staging
srctl register user-events --file schema.avsc --context .mycontext
```

## Safety Features

### Delete Safety Levels

1. **Referential Integrity Check** (default) - Prevents deleting schemas that are referenced by others
2. **Soft Delete** (default) - Marks as deleted, can be restored
3. **Permanent Delete** (`--permanent`) - Removes permanently
4. **Force Delete** (`--force`) - Bypasses soft delete, performs full deletion
5. **Confirmation Prompts** - Required for destructive operations
6. **Skip Confirmations** (`--yes`) - For scripted usage

### Clone Safety

- Schema IDs are preserved by default to maintain referential integrity
- Use `--no-preserve-ids` only when you explicitly want new IDs assigned

## Global Flags

```
-u, --url string        Schema Registry URL (overrides config)
    --username string   Basic auth username
    --password string   Basic auth password
-r, --registry string   Registry name from config
-c, --context string    Schema Registry context (e.g., '.mycontext')
-o, --output string     Output format: table, json, yaml, plain (default "table")
```

## Exit Codes

- `0` - Success
- `1` - General error
- `2` - Configuration error
- `3` - Connection error

## License

MIT License
